Well, thanks for joining the podcast for Perdido Bay Methodist Church. my name is Dudley.
My name is Scott Hall. Today is February 13th, Friday, Matthew 13. Oh, yeah, that's right. And we're reading Matthew. We're reading Matthew 13.
Matthew 13 on the 13th. This is not a bad life. God is going to bless us. Don't be afraid. That is Friday the 13th, friends. Yeah, our reading is Matthew 13, 44 through 50.
I'm going to read a little bit of this, and then we're going to go ahead.
I have our talk. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field which a man found and hid again and from joy over it.
Over it.
He goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field. But again, the kingdom of Heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls upon finding one.
One pearl of great value
He went and sold all that he had,
And bought it.
and again the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet cast into the sea gathering fish of every kind and some of these fish when they separated the fish out scott were good fish some were not good.
Not good fish, and there was a separation that had come. And then it goes on, and it says that Jesus went to his hometown there.
And,
They didn't believe that he was the Messiah. They took offense at it. They took offense, and it says he didn't do many miracles because.
of their unbelief. Okay, so it's talking about the kingdom of God.
of heaven, the kingdom of God, but it's also talking about treasure. What does that make you think of?
What one?
Am I willing to sell if... What? What?
It's worth me giving up everything in order to gain that one thing. Wow. So, I mean, God's...
The kingdom is the way that god is at work this is the the the good news the movement the uh
Salvation that Jesus is ushering in.
And is that worth me letting everything else go in order to gain that treasure?
and some of the disciples think they left everything they had to follow Jesus.
And,
Maybe these verses are
Indication of statements that it's.
The guy, when he came across the treasure,
You know, he reburied it. And then it says, then in joy, joy.
He goes and sells all that he has. There's a heaviness to this. It is joyful. He wants to do it. or.
uh the great pearl you know person merchant has five pearls and he finally finds the one that.
It really is worth everything. And so he sells everything he has to get that one pearl. Yeah.
Right now, Dudley, we got the Olympics going on. Yeah. And these athletes, they dedicate themselves to
There's such a perseverance in everything they have in order to gain this power.
this goal, the prize that
So most of them are not going to get it because they can always be one winner.
You know, the things of the surf will pass away. but but, ah,
so yeah.
My question that challenges me here is do I have that love for God and God's kingdom? Am I just distracted by so many things of this world that are going to pass over?
Pass away. Yeah. I remember having a friend that was, you know,
into comic books yeah and I thought they were they were kind of cool but he
really saw the value in them and some are worth a lot but I'm I didn't keep my comic books I had no clue they were going to be worth something
i just was like let's play and read and let's go do something else and let them i don't know where they are now and then we tossed them.
But he
Was able to
either either
Collect them as an investment, or to then sell them for way more than what you bought it for. he saw there was a value there.
you know?
You know, the sad reality with comic books and other collective items, they're only worth what someone's willing to pay for them, regardless of how much it says. Yes.
What is really the one thing that
I would want to have above all
Yeah. Things else. And ultimately has to be that relationship with Jesus Christ. Yeah. That is the thing. And many times people don't see.
I want to see it. And we pray for a deeper understanding for ourselves. I mean, the people in this hometown of Nazareth didn't see it. No. They were offended by it.
Amen. But it's almost like we know you. We don't know anyone who could be the Messiah. We know you. Aren't you the... Don't we know you? You grew up here and have you be the Messiah.
All right, how can you be the Messiah? Don't we know your brothers and your sisters first, Abby?
we know you I mean how can you be the Messiah and yet
Jesus is
The.
Far Al shines the great buried treasure or the great pearl.
Oh, Jesus, these. So I'm thinking, you know, the sad news is that some people don't get it. You know, we've got friends, we've got family members, we've got, you know.
No.
neighbors who are not believers. They don't get it. They haven't found that.
treasure chest yet in Christ. That reminds me of the song. What's the song we were talking about earlier?
We were talking about that U2 song. It still hasn't found what I'm looking for. The U2, that great U2 song. And so there's no revs. They're still searching or maybe they can't.
Searches.
You don't want to find something.
That's the sadness. The good news is that there are people who are responding. There are people who are like this merchant.
So I go back to the beginning of this chapter because chapter 13 is all about the
King and a hammer. it's like.
The sower who sown seeds. And we can say, who?
One of those seeds i got them chunked out by the thorns those seeds
Where they were on shallow ground and the birds ate them.
Oh, no, these seeds were, when the sun started to shine because it was shallow, so they died. Yeah.
But I think Jesus says, no, look at the...
Seeds that are growing. There's some that are growing in fall. Yeah, and there are people who are like this merchant who are. Wow, I found this great pearl. I'm going to sell it.
I saw everything they get this pearl. Wow, look at this. I found this treasure. Thank you.
And
He asked the disciples, Have you understood all this?
And they answered yes.
That's what goes on here. So the samples aren't getting it. So maybe...
The challenge for us is are we willing to sell everything we have, to let everything we have go in order to find that treasure in God? Yeah.
That's the challenge. The good news is that people are
Doing that.
Yeah. They are. So people are, the lives are being changed. It's almost like if we could talk to John the Baptist. Yeah. He said, are you the one to come or do we look for someone else? And it said, go tell.
Don't tell John that people are being healed. Right.
you know, things are, God is transforming lives. Yeah, and God is transforming lives, yeah, the lame are walking, the blind see, blessed are those
So that's the good news. But then the...
The tragedy is that we live in a fallen world and people resist the kingdom. And so we're going to mention John right after this story here. We have the story of
Story of John getting beheaded. Yeah. So it's... Yeah.
You know that so maybe we need that
Other parable that's here about that.
you know at the end of time god's angels will separate the good fish and the bad fish
That's basically it, affirms that God will resolve all things in God's good time, that God.
Alone gets the last word and that God is going to establish
justice and fairness and make all things right. Well, sometimes we get tempted to go, well, what kind of fish is this person? I have somebody that
You know what I mean? And it's not our place to do so. But human nature is like, oh, you're not a good fish. And there was this guy one time that, you know,
oh my word he was something else
And then
over time.
Yeah he's
Been transformed.
Yeah. And so that shows you what I know. We need to know that God can transform everything.
any of these fish into good fish or and sustain those that are already following them. Amen.
We're not to judge. I know. My joke is always, you know, Matthew 25 is a great parable of the...
the king judging at the end of time, the sheep and the goats. But it doesn't say that Scott Hone is on the throne making those decisions. Right. It's about Jesus deal with that.
I, same thing here when the angels separate the good and bad, I just doesn't say Scott's going to be doing it. I'll let, I'll give it a.
And I know that.
I'm called to be loving, kind, gracious,
And to follow just simply follow the lord today and tomorrow today and and
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I'll tell you what, thank you so much for joining us. Yes, be encouraged. Be encouraged by the kingdom and the treasure and that God is...
transforming us from moving in our lives. See a good cheer and, you know, don't be afraid of Friday the 13th. That is good.
and
Have a wonderful Valentine's Day tomorrow. That's right. Happy Valentine's Day. Happy Valentine's Day to my lovely wife, Elizabeth. And to Holly as well.
Ollie as well, and all my girls and everyone out there, we love you. Thanks for joining us. Have a great day. Thank you.